This is how to script a viral YouTube
video. What I'm about to show you works
for every single script. You don't need
to reinvent the wheel. All you have to
do is play the YouTube game and
replicate what's already working. I call
this using winning formats because
YouTube at its core runs on patterns.
And once you learn what the YouTube
algorithm rewards, which is by finding
winning formats, you can start to write
scripts effortlessly. And in this video,
I'm breaking down why formats are the
key to viral videos. The five format
types that you need to master and the
right ways to adapt them to your
audience and content goals. Before we
dive into why formats are the key to
viral videos, I want to clarify what I
mean by formats. A format is the
underlying structure or the skeleton of
a video. It's not the words, it's the
pattern behind the words. For example,
this viral video by Ryan Tran, I tested
onestar drive-thrus can be broken out
into the format I tested lowquality
subject. And because he had this format
go viral, he replicated it with hundreds
of different subject titles. So, this
became a viral title format. And you can
find creators across all niches using
viral title formats from all over
YouTube. Even I do this myself. My most
viewed video on this channel is a full
YouTube script writing course, 1 hour
plus. And when I scripted this video,
there were a bunch of videos that were
titled full drop shipping course 18
hours plus. And that video was the main
inspiration by Jordan Bound, which led
to this exact same title format that I
used for my video. And I got views on an
entirely new niche. And so why in the
first place are formats the key to viral
videos? And that's because audiences
respond to proven patterns. Certain
video formats perform well because human
psychology is the same. If one video got
a click in one niche, if you do a little
yon and twist for another niche and
change the topic, it still leverages the
same human psychology. And guess what?
It'll get the click. Take Mr. Beast's
challenge formula. I survived 50 hours
in X. It works because viewers recognize
the pattern. Extreme challenge, high
stakes, plus a satisfying payoff equals
over 100 million views. And because the
psychology worked with one title format,
Mr. once again replicated it on his
channel or what many people call
doubling down on a winning idea. Now you
see fitness channels doing the exact
similar format. I trade like a this
person for XX days. Then you see
business channels adapting a similar I
did X in X days format. Same format,
different niche, the exact same
psychology because formats equals
predictable results. And really just by
understanding the core idea of formats,
it allows you to be dumb but still win
on YouTube. And you don't need to be
crazy creative in order to come up with
great video ideas. YouTube as a platform
has over 15 years of data to tell you
exactly what works. And if you look at
the exact data on YouTube and actually
decide what video to do based on that
rather than, you know, acting like
you're Picasso and trying to figure out
what video idea that you want to do,
then you will actually succeed. YouTube
isn't that hard if you can understand
formats and how to apply formats to your
very channel. Because if you're watching
this video, if you actually sat down and
counted the number of hours that [music]
you actually spent researching YouTube
videos or actually spent scripting
YouTube videos, you probably don't spend
anywhere between 40 to 60 to 100 hours
every single week trying to make video
ideas. And if you're not Mr. beast and
you're not about to spend 100 hours on
your video ideas. What you can do is
actually look at what formats are
working. Find signals for what people
are clicking on based on these formats
and then just steal those formats and
put your own twist on it. Really, when
many people hear me talk about what is a
winning format and stealing what [music]
works from other people, they get on
this moral high ground and think that
YouTube has to be everything about
creativity. Once again, I'm telling you
to look at what works and then adapt it
to yourself. I'm not telling you to
steal the title and thumbnail outright.
And really, the same people who demonize
formats are the exact same people who
don't succeed on YouTube. And really,
the reason that I'm making YouTube
videos and trying to get views is not
because I'm trying to be the most
creative in the world with all of these
flying objects flying across the screen.
Editor, put it in. And really what I
care more about is getting views and
building an audience who actually likes,
cares, and trusts me more so than trying
to be right and trying to be [music] the
most creative in the world because I
don't think there's any prizes for being
the most creative in the world. Unless
once again, you're Picasso, but I'm not
Picasso. But anyways, I went a little
bit off script there, but what I just
described to you is taking title formats
that are working and applying it to your
channel. And it's not just title
formats. I'm about to show you all of
the different types of formats that you
can use for your channel. It's not just
title formats. Once again, you can use
editing formats. You can use hook
formats. You can use script writing
structure formats and apply that to your
video. So actually if you take a winning
format from a title, you take a winning
format from a hook, take a winning
format from a script structure, and you
take a winning format in terms of an
editing or an execution standpoint, your
video is just taking bits and pieces and
it's like you're putting Lego together
and your video actually has a pretty
good chance of standing [music] out and
going viral. I actually don't really
have any doubt in that if you apply
formats correctly, which is exactly what
I'm about to show you. In the case of
this video, we're talking about writing
scripts. So, I want to go over script
formats that are working and dig into
the granular of what script templates
are working and how to figure out if you
should even emulate something
format-wise. And before you can adapt
these formats to your videos, you first
need to understand how to find formats
worth modeling. When I analyze a winning
video the manual way, I will look at
their number one title structure. So,
I'll analyze and spot the patterns that
the video is using. Number two, I also
look at the hook. So, how do they open
and what hook types are they using?
Number three, I'll look at their body
structure. How many main points and how
do they transition? I'm not just looking
at what they said. I'm going to look at
why it worked instead. What
psychological principles did they use?
What retention [music] hacks, what made
viewers unable to click away. That's the
real value. Understanding the why behind
the format. Because all this manual
analysis takes time and a lot of mental
power and sometimes you just [music]
don't have time to do it. So obviously
the easier and faster way to actually
find these outlier videos that [music]
you can use to steal formats from is by
using the subscriber tool which is an AI
YouTube script writing platform that you
can also use to find ideas. Once you log
in you can just enter a prompt into the
chat like give me video ideas for my
channel based on the outlier formats
from you know this specific YouTube
channel. So let me use Dan Martell this
time. It'll analyze the outlier
structure, tone, hooks, call to actions,
and much more. And in a matter of
seconds, you'll have valuable insights
to help you craft better titles, hooks,
and content strategy. And you can see
here from my results, I now have an
analysis of Dan Martell's YouTube
strategy, the formats, and his outliers,
and how I can adapt them for my channel.
And it even gives me specific video
ideas for my channel, and the core hook
I can use for that specific format. And
you can go ahead and scroll YouTube to
see what videos are working, what titles
are winning, what titles are not
winning, and then you can kind of just
adapt it for your channel based on that.
Or you can use the subscriber tool.
Honestly, either one is up to you.
[music] I personally like using the
subscriber tool. But copying winning
formats isn't just literal word [music]
for word copying. Once again, you don't
want to copy thumbnails and titles word
for word. So really what I just
described to you is how do you find
winning title formats [music] which
really is the first type of format that
you can adapt to your context. And
really title formats are number one
because your whole script depends on it.
And if you get it wrong you have wasted
hours writing a script that no one will
watch. So some recent examples of
winning title formats that I've seen
work across several niches are number
one I tried every certain subject.
Number two if you're in this situation
watch this. Number three if I do X in
year I do this. I've seen these titles
adapted across a thousand plus niches
because it just works. [music] Because
these titles promise insider knowledge,
there's urgency and it positions you as
an expert without feeling like you're
preaching. You can research for winning
title formats manually. Just go to
successful YouTube channels in your
niche, sort their videos by most
popular, then look for patterns in their
top videos. Okay, and now that we got
the title out of the way, let's talk
about number two, hook formats. The
first 30 seconds will make or break your
video. So, here are 10 hook types that
you need to know. Number one is a
question hook. Number two is a shocking
statement. Number three is a
storytelling hook. Number four is a
preview hook. Number five is a personal
connection. Number six is a statistic or
fact hook. Number seven is a challenge
hook. Number eight is a quotation hook.
Number nine is a metaphor hook. And
number 10 is a proof hook. Or number 11
that I've just added to this list is
just repeating the title. So, it's
exactly what I did at the start of this
video. Just repeat the title. Sometimes
the best hook is the simplest. But what
matters more than the type of hook that
we choose is the psychology behind why
it works. Because every winning hook
follows this universal structure. You
confirm the click and then you spot
curiosity. You establish stakes and then
you establish your credibility. So let's
look at a real winning hook. So I want
to look at this video that I scripted
for. The title is how I brainwashed
myself to be a millionaire at 20. And
you can see over here, this is a 29x
[music]
outlier, which means that this specific
video 29 times outperformed her average
video on her channel with over 400,000
views in less than a month. And this is
the very first video that I idiated and
scripted with her on this channel. So,
let's take a look at the hook.
>> This is how I brainwashed myself to be a
millionaire at 20 years old. Growing up
in a big family, we didn't have a lot of
money. As I got older, I realized that
your brain has a specific operating
system for money, just like a computer.
Mine was programmed for poverty. So, I
had to hack it. Most people think
mindset work is just about positive
thinking, but I'm going to show you why
the mental programming that I used took
[music] me from $20 to my name at 18
years old to building a business that
generated over 13 million just 4 [music]
years later. If I did it in such a short
period of time, I believe that you can
too and probably even faster today. So
if you notice some of the languaging
that we used within the hook is that you
know she talked about her mental
programming and how you know the title
over here it says how I brainwashed
myself. So she kind of talks about the
mental programming that she has had from
her childhood and that is a very in line
with the title where I say brainwash
over here. And you can also see that
there is a story baked into it of the
transformation of how she went from
state A all the way to making millions
of dollars at the age of 20. And over
here as you're about to see we're about
to establish [music] uh what we're going
to talk about in the video.
>> I'm giving you the exact steps to get
there. You'll be happy to know that the
techniques I [music] used aren't some
secret, but it's shocking how almost
nobody does them consistently enough to
[music] actually see results. What most
people get wrong about becoming wealthy
is that
>> there you go. And that pretty much is
the hook. It's nothing super duper
complex. It's a 45se secondond hook that
[music] condenses all of the values. And
you can see we actually went through
every single step there, which we
started all the way from confirming the
click to sparking curiosity to setting
stakes, establishing credibility, and
eventually teasing the payoff, aka
telling the viewer exactly what they're
going to get when you watch this video.
And once again, this video 29 times
outperformed her average video with just
such a simple hook formula. And of
course, if you're like, "Hey, Brian, oh,
the title is like super duper creative.
You didn't follow any format there."
Really, this title format, how I
brainwashed myself, is actually taken
from popular Leila Hermosi videos. You
can see over here, 12x, how I
brainwashed myself to be rich, 1.2
million views. How I brainwashed myself
to success are, [music] you know, two of
her top five performing videos. And once
again, how this how I brainwashed
myself, right? Leila and Anna had a lot
of things similar. Both of them are in
the business niche. Both of them are,
you know, high performing women who have
a lot of success. [music] But really, I
decided to take this title and add
become a millionaire at 20 because when
I ask myself when I'm working with a
client like Annayia, what can I say that
is outstanding for her that other people
cannot say, right? She can say that
she's a millionaire at 20 and most
people can't say that. And if you look
at the titles for Leila Hermosi, how I
brainwashed myself to be rich, how I
brainwashed myself to success, kind of
the dream outcome at the end to be rich
to success is very vague. It's very
broad. So I was like, hey, what if
instead I took a very specific outcome
like becoming a millionaire at 20 and
adapted it to the client's unique
advantages and what they can say that no
one else can say. And really, that's how
you take a winning format from within
your niche and you specialize it for
this specific client. And that's what I
did for this specific client. And there
you go. Massive outlier just like that.
And so that's the anatomy of a strong
title and a strong hook that keeps
[music] viewers glued. Now, how do you
keep them watching after the hook? And
really, that's where transitions come
in. So that's what number three is,
transition formats. Open loops create
curiosity gaps. And really, they're why
you can't stop watching Netflix. They
work because you tease something
valuable and then you delay the payoff.
The framework I use to write open loops
has four steps. Number one, first tease
something valuable. For example, I can
say something like, "But here's the
crazy part." And the second part of a
strong open loop is, "I want to create a
knowledge gap after hooking them back
in." So, you can do this by saying
something like, "Oh, this one mistake
cost me $10,000." Next, I will delay the
payoff. So, one way to do this is by
saying, "I'll show you exactly what it
was in a minute." So, once again, you
create anticipation. You future pace
over there. And lastly, remember to
always close the loop. like actually
deliver on what you promised. So if you
say that you're going to tell them the
story about how you lost $10,000
eventually you need to tell the story.
You cannot just have a curiosity gap and
be like hey why did this guy not tell me
the story? You need to explain what the
story is. The best way to get really
good at transitions and instead of just
saying oh onto my next point right now
is what you can do is you can create a
swipe file of your favorite creators. So
a swipe file is basically a compilation
of all of your favorite open loops. And
if you want my personal swipe file of
all the open loops that I've compiled
over the years, some of the favorite
ones that I've written for myself, some
of the favorite ones that I've taken
from the top creators, I'll send it
directly to your inbox. No problem.
Because really, mastering open loops is
so important because you put the viewers
in a state of curiosity and you give
them strong reasons to continue watching
beyond your current script. And once you
install effective open loops, I
guarantee that your retention will boost
by 30%. Pretty easy because viewers want
more and they want more and they want
more and they'll continue watching your
video and it's an essential part of a
killer YouTube script. Okay, now let's
talk about number four. Body structure
formats. All viral videos follow similar
structures, whether it's storytelling or
educational content. And when it comes
to body structures, don't bother trying
to reinvent the wheel. I want you to
just model what's already proven to
work. So the same thing for hooks, see
what works for your hooks, and then you
model that. You just look at titles,
what works for the titles, and then you
want to model that. Once again, this
script writing stuff is not super
complicated. I can title this video,
writing YouTube scripts is easy actually
because it is easy actually. Just see
what is working and then model that. For
example, I recently filmed my video
titled I scripted 173 YouTube videos.
Here's what I learned. And once again, I
took this title format from this Ed
Lawrence video, which is his best
performance titled I made 300 YouTube
videos. This is what I learned. But I
wanted to take that exact title and
adapt it for my specific channel, which
is specifically talking about YouTube
script writing. And if you go ahead and
you watch that video, you'll notice that
he talks about 40 different lessons that
he learned from making YouTube videos.
And I, because I saw that that format
worked with that specific title, what
did I do? I'm just going to take that
format and then I'm going to apply it to
script writing niche and talk about 40
brutal truths about YouTube script
writing that you need to know. And so I
scripted the video based on the similar
body structure. This guy talked about 40
lessons. So I'm going to talk about 40
brutal truths about YouTube script
writing. It's the exact same body
structure. You can literally steal body
structure. But if you put your own
twist, your own content to it. It's
something completely new. Once again, I
am not stealing. I'm just adapting what
works. And really the big art of this is
understanding what works in a viral
video. So that's the overall concept of
the Ed Lawrence video. And if you were
to drill down even more granular and you
look at the specific structure of the
video, once again, it's hook truth one,
truth two, truth three, truth four, so
on and so forth into the closing call to
action. And then if you were to zoom in
even more on truth one, you can see that
the truth follows a why, what, how
format, starting with why does this
matter to the viewer, telling with a
story, number two, what the lesson is,
and number three, how to actually
implement it for them. And yeah, it's
really that easy. So now I know when I
want to go ahead and script my I
scripted, 173 YouTube videos, what do I
do? I start with the hook. Truth one,
truth two, truth three until truth 40
with a closing call to action. And
within truth one, I follow why, what,
how. Super duper simple way of scripting
your video there. So once again, before
you script the actual body of your
script, I want you to find a winning
body structure within your niche or
within similar niches to your specific
video. So once you have your title that
you're stealing the format from, if you
can break down the body structure and
see why it actually worked, and if
there's a good argument to be made for
why that specific body structure
actually worked, then you can actually
adapt it for yourself or make any
improvements that you need to on it.
Super duper easy. Okay, number five,
call toaction formats. This is the
trickiest one to replicate because so
many creators are so bad at doing call
to actions. The big mistake that most
people will make is that they will
signal that their video is about to end.
So, most YouTubers will end their videos
by telling people, "Oh, thanks for
watching. Like and subscribe." That is a
terrible way of doing it. You most
definitely do not want to just tell
people to like and subscribe as a call
to action. Subscribers don't even matter
anymore these days. Or an even more
subtle mistake that people will make is
they'll be like, "Oh, so these are the
five winning formats that you need to
know. Thanks for watching." And then
that's the end of their video. Just by
telling the viewer that you are
recapping the video and that these are
the five winning formats that you need
to know. You're telling the viewer, hey,
this video is about to end. And that is
a big retention bomb. I personally have
made this mistake before, but never
again. I would never just tell the
viewer, hey, this is a summary. Because
a summary is useless because the viewer
can kind of like scroll back and watch
the video if they need to, if the video
is valuable enough, which ideally the
video is valuable enough. So, I've
analyzed thousands of YouTube videos,
actual good YouTube videos with strong
call to actions, and most endings end
under one of two buckets. Number one,
the end is abrupt. So, it could
immediately just cut to a black screen
while you're in the middle of a
sentence. And really, the reason why
cutting to a black screen or ending the
video abruptly is so useful is because
viewers don't expect it and the
retention doesn't immediately dropped.
And plus, they've already got the entire
video, so they don't need an actual
ending to the video and it just cuts to
a black screen. You don't need to do
anything super duper fancy there. Or on
the other end of the spectrum, if you
want to do a call to action to
something, you can use the hook,
curiosity, action formula. Hook is
saying, "But wait, there's one more
thing that I didn't tell you." It's a
really common one. I love to use this.
And then the curiosity is everything
we've covered is completely useless if
you don't know this one thing. And then
the action is to click here to watch my
video on this one thing over here. So if
you follow this formula, hook,
curiosity, action, once again, you
rehook the viewers's attention. You give
them another reason to continue
watching, which is your curiosity gap.
It's like, oh, like what more do I not
know? And then the action is something
where you get them to click and take an
action to [music] go somewhere. And
really, if you master this, your end
screen clickthrough rate will go from
somewhere between 5% all the way up to
15%. That's an extra 10% of your viewers
who get to the end of your video that
will click on another video on your
channel and thereby creating this binge
effect or spiderweb effect where people
will continue watching your video over
and over and over and over again and
spend hours and hours and hours with
your YouTube channel and become a mega
fan for a long time. Now that you
understand the concept of winning
formats when it comes to writing strong
titles all the way to writing a [music]
banger call to action, there's actually
something that I didn't cover in this
video. One of the things that I alluded
to is how you can use AI to actually
automate this entire process. And you
can do that now with subscriber AI.
Click over here to learn how subscriber
AI can do this entire process for any
YouTube channel. Doesn't matter what
niche you're at, whether you're a
personal brand or entertainment channel,
it can do it all. Click over here to
learn the exact process of how I do it
for thousands and thousands of customers
every single day. Thanks for watching
and I'll see you in the next